---
title: "Validation"
linkTitle: "Validation"
weight: 50
description: >
    Validation the deployment of the EU Digital Green Certificate Reference Architecture
---

### Issue a Certificate

TODO: Descibe how to access the Issuance Web site and how to issue a Vaccine Cert.

### SSH to EU Jumpboxes
During the creation of the `eudgc-dev` terraform stack, VNets and Jumpboxes are created as jumphosts to access the AKS cluster securely. Once the infrastructure has been deployed, the process generates SSH configuration files to simplify the access to the jumphosts in the folder `eudgc-dev/jumpbox-ssh-configs`. The creation of config files (in case keys are changed externally/manually), can be regenerated by the make target `make ssh-config`, will write the files in the folder mentioned above.

In order to start an interactive ssh to any of the two zones (eu or ie) we can use the ssh config files. The command can be automatically generated by issuing `make print-ssh-cmd` which will output the ssh command to connect to VMs. This target is the root directory as well as `eudgc-eu` and `eudgc-ie`

### Access AKS
The simplest way to access the private interface in the AKS cluster from your computer is through a SOCKS5 tunnel, this is compatible with the CLI tooling required to operate a Kubernetes cluster. SSH has builtin capabilities to create this types of proxies in the local network and send the traffic through the ssh tunnel. Two convenience make targets `ssh-tunnel-start` and `ssh-tunnel-stop` are available, once tunnels are started, exporting the following variables will make the CLI tooling to use the proxy.

```bash
export ALL_PROXY=socks5h://127.0.0.1:8881
export HTTPS_PROXY=socks5://127.0.0.1:8881
export HTTP_PROXY=socks5://127.0.0.1:8881
```

Use port 8881 for EU and 8882 for IE deployments. 
